.TH AusweisApp2 1
.SH NAME
AusweisApp2 \- Official authentication app for German ID cards and residence permits
.SH SYNOPSIS

AusweisApp2 [-h|--help]
.br
AusweisApp2 [--help-all]
.br
AusweisApp2 [-v|--version]
.br
AusweisApp2 [--show]
.br
AusweisApp2
[--keep]
[--no-logfile]
[--no-loghandler]
[--show]
[--no-proxy]
[--ui { qml|websocket }]
[--port \fI\,PORT\/\fR]
[--address \fI\,ADDRESS\/\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
AusweisApp2 allows you to authenticate yourself against websites via your German
ID card and residence permits.

You will need:
.br
* an ID card that is enabled for online identification
.br
* A compatible NFC device (most NFC readers should work, NFC-enabled phones can
* also be used)
.br
* AusweisApp2
.br
* A browser
.br
* A website that supports authentication via German ID card

When you visit such a website, AusweisApp2 will be triggered and will ask you if
you want to authenticate against the website.

This program will provide a local webserver for your browser to interface against.

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.B -h, --help
Displays a short help message.

.TP
.B --help-all
Displays help including Qt specific options.

.TP
.B -v, --version
Displays version information.

.TP
.B --keep
.br
By default, AusweisApp2 writes a log to a file matching
${TMP}/AusweisApp2.*.log. When the program terminates, it will be deleted. This
setting prevents deletion.

.TP
.B --no-logfile
Suppress writing a log file to ${TMP}/AusweisApp2.*.log. Logs will still be
written to STDOUT.

.TP
.B --no-loghandler
Disable default log handler. This disables logging to STDOUT.

.TP
.B --show
Show window on startup.

.TP
.B --no-proxy
Disable system proxy.

.TP
.B --ui { qml|webservice|websocket }
This option allows multiple values.
- "qml" will start the program with a visible UI.
- "websocket" will let it start in the background as an SDK. This is only useful when integrating
AusweisApp2 into other programs.
- "webservice" starts listening on given port/address.

Default is "qml,webservice,websocket".

.TP
.B --port \fI\,PORT\/\fR
Change the listening port for the WebSocket. Default is 24727. Selecting "0" is
a special case. AusweisApp2 will then select a random port and write the port
number to a file in ${TMP}/AusweisApp2.<PID>.port.

.TP
.B --address \fI\,ADDRESS\/\fR
Use given addresses for interface binding. Normally AusweisApp2 is bound to
localhost only as it is a security requirement. Useful for testing only.
This option allows multiple values.

.SH "RETURN VALUE"
AusweisApp2 will return 0 when successfully terminated.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B QT_QPA_PLATFORM={ wayland|X11 }
You may force the session type to wayland or X11. This is only needed for
debugging purposes. XDG_SESSION_TYPE will be ignored on gnome.

.SH FILES

\fI~/.config/AusweisApp2_CE/AusweisApp2.conf\fR
File path where the user config is saved.

.SH CAVEATS
Currently there is no way to terminate the program on gnome as the TrayIcon
is mandatory.

.SH AUTHOR
This man page was written by Lee Garrett (debian@rocketjump.eu) for Debian (but
may be used by others).

.SH "SEE ALSO"
https://www.ausweisapp.bund.de/en
.br
https://www.ausweisapp.bund.de/sdk
